Being social with your target


If you are not using Social-Engineer Toolkit
(SET, https://www.trustedsec.com/social-engineer-toolkit/),
you are missing out on something important.

We can certainly use it to spoof(parodia de ) Google, Facebook, and Twitter to attract victims and launch attacks or scrape their credentials,
but we can also use it in spoofing our target web application so as to hijack sessions and map user behaviors.

As victims unknowingly browse these duplicate websites from the comfort of a coffee shop chair, attackers can gather the victims' passwords or even inject a command shell that gives them full access to the victims' systems.

It is a great tool for security professionals to demonstrate how users more often than not will not pay attention to the location
where they enter sensitive information as long as the page looks legit. (legitimo)

Let's take a look at how to use SET against the mirror that we pulled down from www.hackthissite.org.

Here is a diagram we can use to help envision what this attack looks like:
        check Social-Engineer Toolkit.png

    SET can be used for many attacks, but who doesn't like a classic MITM?



My typical use for SET is to select option
    1) Social Engineering Attacks,
    then select 2) Website Attack Vectors.
    What I'm looking for is in
    3) Credential Harvester Attack Method,

so we can grab our poor target users' login credentials.

We can use the built-in templates or import custom sites
(useful for corporate portals or lesser-used web applications);

but why wouldn't we want to just use the mirror we already captured?
We'll choose option
    3) Custom Import.

This will turn our Kali Linux VM into a malicious front-end for www.hackthissite.org, presenting itself as the real deal and scraping credentials or any other HTML-based information fields:

    check setoolkit.png

SET configuration using a previous mirror - modify and tweak to make it even more convincing.

A quick check of our mirror shows it is now up-and-running; our task now is to persuade users to direct their initial sessions to here.

A quick check pointing to my copy of the site shows our MITM clone is ready to roll.

Entering some credentials in the Login fields and submitting them, I can see that they are captured live and recorded in a log file.

    check login-mirror MITM.png 

Any HTTP messages that arrive are captured, so credentials or personal information is ours to own.
